doc/source/configuration.rst, before:

.. .. author:: Bjørn Ådlandsvik <bjorn@imr.no>

LADIM configuration
===================

The LADIM model is highly configurable using a separate configuration file.
The goal is that a user should not have to touch the code, every necessary
aspect should be customable by the configuration file.

The name of the configuration file is given as a command line argument to the
main ladim script. If the name is missing, a default name of :file:`ladim.yaml` is
supposed.

It is a goal to provide sane defaults in the configuration file, so that
enhancements of the configuration setup do not break existing configuration
files.

The configuration file format is a subset of :abbr:`yaml
(YAML Ain't Markup Language)` (`<http:yaml.org>`_). Knowledge of yaml is not
necessary. The example configuration files are self-describing and can
easily be modified.

Question

LADIM can be used with different :abbr:`IBMs (Individual Based Models)`.
These may require quite different
configurations. Should they be accompanied by a separate configuration file?
Main configuration may just state which IBM module to use,
and the name of the IBM configuration file.




An example configuration file
-----------------------------

Below is an example configuration file,

Commit message:

Workflow documentation + doc clean up

doc/source/configuration.rst, after:

.. .. author:: Bjørn Ådlandsvik <bjorn@imr.no>

LADIM configuration
===================

The LADIM model is highly configurable using a separate configuration file.
The goal is that a user should not have to touch the code, every necessary
aspect should be customable by the configuration file.

The name of the configuration file is given as a command line argument to the
main ladim script. If the name is missing, a default name of :file:`ladim.yaml` is
supposed.

It is a goal to provide sane defaults in the configuration file, so that
enhancements of the configuration setup do not break existing configuration
files.

The configuration file format is a subset of :abbr:`yaml
(YAML Ain't Markup Language)` (`<http:yaml.org>`_). Knowledge of yaml is not
necessary. The example configuration files are self-describing and can
easily be modified.

Question

LADIM can be used with different :abbr:`IBMs (Individual Based Models)`.
These may require quite different
configurations. Should they be accompanied by a separate configuration file?
Main configuration may just state which IBM module to use,
and the name of the IBM configuration file.


.. seealso::
  Module :mod:`configuration`
    Documentation of the :mod:`configuration` module

An example configuration file
-----------------------------

Below is an example configuration file,
