doc/source/output.rst, before:

Output format
=============

The particle distributions are written to NetCDF files.
The frequency of output, the variables included and their attributes
are determined by the configuration file.

This is a not backwards compatible modification of the old LADIM format.
The fundamental data structure is the same, so cripts should be easy to modify.
The change is done to follow the CF-standard
as far as possible, and to increase flexibility.

For particle tracking the CF-standard defines a format for
"Indexed ragged array representation of trajectories". This is not suitable
for our purpose since we are more interested in the geographical distribution
of particles at a given time that the individual trajectories.
Chris Baker at NOAA has an interesting discussion on this topic and a
suggestion at `github
<https://github.com/NOAA-ORR-ERD/nc_particles/blob/master/
nc_particle_standard.md>`_.
The new LADIM format is closely related to this suggestion.

The format uses an indexed ragged array representation, suitable for
both version 3 and 4 of the NetCDF standard. The dimensions are
``time``, ``particle`` and ``particle_instance``. The particle dimension
indexes the
individual particles, while the particle_instance indexes the instances i.e.
a particle at a given time. The number of times is defined by the length of the
simulation and the frequency of output, both are determined by the configuration.
The number of particles is given by the sum of the multiplicities in the
particle release file, also known in advance. The number of instances is more
uncertain as particles may be removed from the computation by leaving the area,
stranding, or becoming inactive for biological reasons. The particle_instance
dimension is therefore the single unlimited dimension.

The indirect indexing is given by the variable ``particle_count(time)``.
The particle distribution at timestep ``n`` (counting from inital time n=0) can be
retrieved by the following python code::

  nc = Dataset(particle_file)
  particle_count = nc.variables['particle_count'][:n+1]
  start = np.sum(particle_count[:n])
  count = particle_count[n]
  X = nc.variables['X'][start:start+count]

Note that some languages uses 1-based indexing (MATLAB, fortran by default)
In MATLAB the code is::

  % Should be checked by someone who knows matlab
  particle_count = ncread(particle_file, 'particle_count', 1, n+1)
  start = 1 + sum(particle_count(1:n))
  count = particle_count(n+1)
  X = ncread(particle_file, 'X', start, count)


Particle identifier
-------------------

The particle identifier, ``pid`` should always be present in the output
file. It is a particle number, starting with 0 and increasing as the
particles are released. The ``pid`` follows the particle and is not
reused if the particle becomes inactive.  In particular, ``max(pid) + 1`` is
the total number of particles involved so far in the simulation and may be
larger than the number of active particles at the time. It also
has the property that if a particle is released before another
particle, it has lower ``pid``.

The particle identifiers at a given time frame has the following properties,

* pid[start:start+count] is a sorted integer array.
* pid[start+p] >= p
  with equality if and only if all earlier particles are alive at the time frame.

These properties can be used to extract the individual trajectories, if needed.

Example CDL
-----------

::

  netcdf out {
  dimensions:
	    particle = 72000 ;
	    particle_instance = UNLIMITED ; // (540000 currently)
	    time = 13 ;

  variables:
	    double time(time) ;
		      time:long_name = "time" ;
		      time:standard_name = "time" ;
		      time:units = "seconds since 2015-04-01T00:00:00.000000" ;
	    long particle_count(time) ;
		      particle_count:long_name = "number of particles in a given timestep" ;
		      particle_count:ragged_row_count = "particle count at nth timestep" ;
	    double release_time(particle) ;
		      release_time:units = "seconds since 2015-04-01T00:00:00.000000" ;
		      release_time:long_name = "particle release time" ;
	    long farmid(particle) ;
		      farmid:long_name = "fish farm location number" ;
	    long pid(particle_instance) ;
		      pid:long_name = "particle identifier" ;
	    float X(particle_instance) ;
		      X:long_name = "particle X-coordinate" ;
	    float Y(particle_instance) ;
		      Y:long_name = "particle Y-coordinate" ;
	    float Z(particle_instance) ;
		      Z:standard_name = "depth_below_surface" ;
		      Z:positive = "down" ;
		      Z:units = "m" ;
		      Z:long_name = "particle depth" ;
	    float super(particle_instance) ;
		      super:long_name = "number of individuals in instance" ;
	    float age(particle_instance) ;
		      age:standard_name = "integral_of_sea_water_temperature_wrt_time" ;
		      age:units = "Celcius days" ;
		      age:long_name = "particle age in degree-days" ;

  // global attributes:
	  	:Conventions = "CF-1.5" ;
		  :institution = "Institute of Marine Research" ;
		  :source = "Lagrangian Advection and DIffusion Model, python version" ;
		  :history = "Created by pyladim" ;
		  :date = "2017-02-15" ;
  }

Commit message:

Workflow documentation + doc clean up

doc/source/output.rst, after:

Output format
=============

The particle distributions are written to NetCDF files.
The frequency of output, the variables included and their attributes
are determined by the configuration file.

This is a not backwards compatible modification of the old LADIM format.
The fundamental data structure is the same, so cripts should be easy to modify.
The change is done to follow the CF-standard
as far as possible, and to increase flexibility.

For particle tracking the CF-standard defines a format for
"Indexed ragged array representation of trajectories". This is not suitable
for our purpose since we are more interested in the geographical distribution
of particles at a given time that the individual trajectories.
Chris Baker at NOAA has an interesting discussion on this topic and a
suggestion at `github
<https://github.com/NOAA-ORR-ERD/nc_particles/blob/master/
nc_particle_standard.md>`_.
The new LADIM format is closely related to this suggestion.

The format uses an indexed ragged array representation, suitable for
both version 3 and 4 of the NetCDF standard. The dimensions are
``time``, ``particle`` and ``particle_instance``. The particle dimension
indexes the
individual particles, while the particle_instance indexes the instances i.e.
a particle at a given time. The number of times is defined by the length of the
simulation and the frequency of output, both are determined by the configuration.
The number of particles is given by the sum of the multiplicities in the
particle release file, also known in advance. The number of instances is more
uncertain as particles may be removed from the computation by leaving the area,
stranding, or becoming inactive for biological reasons. The particle_instance
dimension is therefore the single unlimited dimension.

The indirect indexing is given by the variable ``particle_count(time)``.
The particle distribution at timestep ``n`` (counting from inital time n=0) can be
retrieved by the following python code::

  nc = Dataset(particle_file)
  particle_count = nc.variables['particle_count'][:n+1]
  start = np.sum(particle_count[:n])
  count = particle_count[n]
  X = nc.variables['X'][start:start+count]

Note that some languages uses 1-based indexing (MATLAB, fortran by default)
In MATLAB the code is::

  % Should be checked by someone who knows matlab
  particle_count = ncread(particle_file, 'particle_count', 1, n+1)
  start = 1 + sum(particle_count(1:n))
  count = particle_count(n+1)
  X = ncread(particle_file, 'X', start, count)

.. seealso::

  Module :mod:`output`
    Documentation of the :mod:`output` module.

Particle identifier
-------------------

The particle identifier, ``pid`` should always be present in the output
file. It is a particle number, starting with 0 and increasing as the
particles are released. The ``pid`` follows the particle and is not
reused if the particle becomes inactive.  In particular, ``max(pid) + 1`` is
the total number of particles involved so far in the simulation and may be
larger than the number of active particles at the time. It also
has the property that if a particle is released before another
particle, it has lower ``pid``.

The particle identifiers at a given time frame has the following properties,

* pid[start:start+count] is a sorted integer array.
* pid[start+p] >= p
  with equality if and only if all earlier particles are alive at the time frame.

These properties can be used to extract the individual trajectories, if needed.

Example CDL
-----------

::

  netcdf out {
  dimensions:
	    particle = 72000 ;
	    particle_instance = UNLIMITED ; // (540000 currently)
	    time = 13 ;

  variables:
	    double time(time) ;
		      time:long_name = "time" ;
		      time:standard_name = "time" ;
		      time:units = "seconds since 2015-04-01T00:00:00.000000" ;
	    long particle_count(time) ;
		      particle_count:long_name = "number of particles in a given timestep" ;
		      particle_count:ragged_row_count = "particle count at nth timestep" ;
	    double release_time(particle) ;
		      release_time:units = "seconds since 2015-04-01T00:00:00.000000" ;
		      release_time:long_name = "particle release time" ;
	    long farmid(particle) ;
		      farmid:long_name = "fish farm location number" ;
	    long pid(particle_instance) ;
		      pid:long_name = "particle identifier" ;
	    float X(particle_instance) ;
		      X:long_name = "particle X-coordinate" ;
	    float Y(particle_instance) ;
		      Y:long_name = "particle Y-coordinate" ;
	    float Z(particle_instance) ;
		      Z:standard_name = "depth_below_surface" ;
		      Z:positive = "down" ;
		      Z:units = "m" ;
		      Z:long_name = "particle depth" ;
	    float super(particle_instance) ;
		      super:long_name = "number of individuals in instance" ;
	    float age(particle_instance) ;
		      age:standard_name = "integral_of_sea_water_temperature_wrt_time" ;
		      age:units = "Celcius days" ;
		      age:long_name = "particle age in degree-days" ;

  // global attributes:
	  	:Conventions = "CF-1.5" ;
		  :institution = "Institute of Marine Research" ;
		  :source = "Lagrangian Advection and DIffusion Model, python version" ;
		  :history = "Created by pyladim" ;
		  :date = "2017-02-15" ;
  }
