examples/latlon/README.rst, before:

=========================
Geographical coordinates
=========================

This is example demonstrates the use of geographical coordinates with
``LADiM``. A line of particles is released along the 59° parallel from Scotland
to Norway.

The ``make_release.py`` script uses the ROMS post-processing package,
``roppy``, to transfom longitude, latitude into the grid coordinates of the
example data file. The package ``roppy`` is available as
https://github.com/bjornaa/roppy. For demonstration, this step can be skipped
as the ``latlon.rls`` file is included. Future releases of ``LADiM`` may be
able to read longitude and latitude directly from the release file.

The ``ladim.yaml`` file shows how to get longitude and latitude of the
particles written into the output file. Basically, add "lon" and "lat" to the
list of output instance variables and make sure they have the necessary
arguments.

The plot scripts, ``plot_basemap.py`` and ``plot_cartopy.py``, demonstrates
ways of plotting the particle distributions in these mapping packages for
``matplotlib``.

Commit message:

Removed dependency of roppy in the latlon example

examples/latlon/README.rst, after:

=========================
Geographical coordinates
=========================

This is example demonstrates the use of geographical coordinates with
``LADiM``. A line of particles is released along the 59° parallel from Scotland
to Norway.

Presently particle release positions are only accepted in grid coordinates. As
the release file is typically made by a ``make_release`` script, this script
can handle the conversion. This is done here, using a method ``ll2xy`` of the
``Grid`` class in the ``gridforce`` module.

For output, the ``ladim.yaml`` file shows how to write longitude and latitude.
Basically, add "lon" and "lat" to the list of output instance variables and
make sure they have the necessary arguments.

The plot scripts, ``plot_basemap.py`` and ``plot_cartopy.py``, demonstrates
ways of plotting the particle distributions in these mapping packages for
``matplotlib``.

The plotting above is slow. This is mainly due to the time used in handling the
intermediate resolution coast line. This may be speeded up several times by
using a pre-made coast line. The script ``make_coast.py`` uses ``basemap`` to
extract the coast line and saves it to ``coast.npy``. The new scripts
``plot2_basemap.py`` and ``plot2_cartopy.py`` are then several times faster.
